All right let's add a little bit more detail to our textures with a bump map.
So I'm going to go back to this kaufen and and let me go back into the editing lay out here.
So what I can do is add a new image texture to this matching the one we already have and bring it in
through the displacement socket here of the material and that will displace the normals just enough
to make it look like this has some bump detail.
Usually when you bring in a texture for a bump map it should probably be black and white.
Let's go into Gamp and make our texture black and white.
So here in Gamp all we really need to do is just convert this to black and white and save out a new
image.
Probably the easiest way to do that is just to go up here to image and mode and just convert it to grayscale
at least temporarily and then we can save this out as a new image file.
All right I'll just go to a file export as an on call this seamless bump.
All right let's go back to blender and hook it up.
So here in the note editor I will press shift A.
Add a new image texture.
Click open and I browse to my textures folder and choose that sandstone bump and open that.
Now in this image texture this is going to be 9 color data and I want to make sure and I tell it that
it's going to be based on the movies of the object.
Now you can see my object has turned to black and white that's just because of the image texture.
No that I'm choosing That's all I will press shift day and add a bump node under the vector menu and
what I'll do now is Connect the color to the normal socket and the normal to the displacement.
Now one thing we should take a look at is the scale of our bump map because if you recall we changed
the scale of the color map.
So let's take a look at that I'd better.
I think what I'll do is create a new panel over here just drag this over.
And in this new panel I'll change this to
properties.
And we go and maybe I'll press the T key to get rid of this and in my properties panel now here I'm
going to go to the materials area and keep in mind this is the same panel as I have on the right side
in in the default view as well so I'm just adding that panel here to this view so I have access to it.
So in the materials panel actually I'll go over to the textures panel and if you notice the one that's
chosen here is this sandstones seamless.
That's this one here.
If I choose this one which is the bump one I'll change to that sandstones seamless bump and notice that
the scale hasn't been changed here.
So the bump texture that's happening here isn't going to match the color texture so I need to have them
match up so the bump is happening in the right places.
So if I look at this color map I see that the scale is to form my image texture for the bump.
I should make this too as well.
I'll just type in two and there you go.
I didn't rotate it at all.
I just scaled it.
So there is the bump information for the coffin.
Let's come back over here and let's look at the stairs.
Now we can do the same thing for this.
I will go ahead and create a new image node with shift a texture image texture.
I will bring in that bump texture and the textures folder here.
Seamless bump open and now all hook up the u v coordinates to that I'll press shift A and add a bump
node and I'll bring the color into the normal slot and this into the displacement.
Now that's fine and all that here's the problem the bump is not going to match the color because of
the scale and rotation.
So for the scale I need to put in five and what the rotation was 160 162.
And so now the bump information is going to match the color.
All right I'll isolate that.
And let's look at the floor now.
I will isolate it and if we tab into edit mode and select everything we can see that here is our U-V
map.
I'm going to bring in texture in a very similar way as I did with the coffin and the stairs.
So I will go back to gimp to begin working on that.
So here in Gamp I'm going to open up another texture I've got this sand texture here that I found out
on the Internet and there it is.
So what I'll do first is try and convert this to a seamless texture.
Good filters map and make seamless and there we go.
So now I will get a file export as and in my textures folder I will call this sand seamless.
And now back in Blender I will now bring in that image with shift a image texture Oh I also need a texture
coordinate and I'll bring the movies into the image texture the image texture into the diffuse Shater
and I'll click open and browse to my textures and choose that sand seamless and open that.
So now we can see there's arcing and then it's looking pretty good.
But I think I may want to reduce the size of that just a bit.
Let's change over here in the texture panel it's changed from brush to image texture.
And in the scale maybe I'll try for Looks like maybe a little bit too small to
or maybe three I'll try three.
You can see some repeating patterns here but that may not be very visible.
We'll take a look and see how that looks here in a minute.
We'll go back to my default view here.
Press the zero key on the keyboard to get to my camera view.
Now go ahead and switch to the rendered viewport shading just to see what we have so far well the way
it looks to me is it looks like the text is just too big.
I think I need to repeat it some another time or two because this just looks too big in the scene.
In addition I'm noticing that the camera may be slightly canted.
Let's take a look at fixing that as well.
So I'll go back to my texture of view tumbled out of my camera of you let me select this camera and
see what I think here.
Yeah it looks like it's a little rotated in the wind so I'm just going to select that and type in zero
and fix that.
So for this texture I'll select it.
Go back to my image texture and repeat it maybe five times.
Try that.
Let me try eight Let's try that.
And I'll try this again yeah I think that looks a little better in this scene that looks a little more
proportional.
So I'll go with 8 for now.
So now that we know that that scale is going to be eight.
Let's go back to the U-V editing view here.
And what I'd like to do is add a bump map in here as well a bump texture.
So I'll go back to Gimp and here in Gamp I will change the image to grayscale and export this out
as a bump in Blendr in the note editor I'll press shift a and bring in an image texture I'll click Open
eyebrows to my textures folder and I'll choose that sand seamless bump.
Now I need to adjust the scale to 8 like the other one I need to add a bump note in here under vector
and bump look the color up to the normal channel and the normal up to the displacement.
Now we should be able to see it a little better in our render that's looking pretty good.
All right we've got textures on a couple of our objects now coming up next we'll begin texturing the
pillars and for that we'll actually begin applying the textures first in GIMP onto the U-V maps and
then bringing those edited textures back into Blendr.